Add the Custom SSL certificate renewal process (#2151)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_renewing-a-custom-ssl-certificate-on-smart-proxy.adoc

[id="Renewing_a_Custom_SSL_Certificate_on_{smart-proxy-context}_{context}"]
= Renewing a {customssltitle} certificate on {SmartProxyServer}

Use this procedure to update your {customssl} certificate for {SmartProxyServer}.
The `{foreman-installer}` command, which the `{certs-generate}` command returns, is unique to each {SmartProxyServer}.
You cannot use the same command on more than one {SmartProxyServer}.

.Prerequisite
* You must create a new Certificate Signing Request and send it to the Certificate Authority to sign the certificate.

> Refer to the {InstallingServerDocURL}Configuring_Server_with_a_Custom_SSL_Certificate_{context}[Configuring {ProjectServer} with a Custom SSL Certificate] guide before creating a new CSR because the Server certificate must have X.509 v3 `Key Usage` and `Extended Key Usage` extensions with required values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the {InstallingServerDocURL}Configuring_Server_with_a_Custom_SSL_Certificate_{context}[Configuring {ProjectServer} with a Custom SSL Certificate] guide before creating a new CSR because the {ProjectServer} certificate must have X.509 v3 `Key Usage` and `Extended Key Usage` extensions with required values.
```

In return, you will receive the {SmartProxyServer} certificate and CA bundle.

.Procedure

> . On {ProjectServer}, validate the {customssl} certificate input files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On your {ProjectServer}, validate the {customssl} certificate input files:
```

+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# katello-certs-check -t {smart-proxy-context} \
-b /root/_{smart-proxy-context}_cert/ca_cert_bundle.pem_ \
-c /root/_{smart-proxy-context}_cert/{smart-proxy-context}_cert.pem_ \
-k /root/_{smart-proxy-context}_cert/{smart-proxy-context}_cert_key.pem_
----

> . Use the following `{certs-generate}` command to generate the certificate archive file for your {SmartProxyServer}:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On your {ProjectServer}, generate the certificate archive file for your {SmartProxyServer}:
```

+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
{certs-generate} --foreman-proxy-fqdn "{smartproxy-example-com}" \
--certs-tar  "_/root/My_Certificates/{smartproxy-example-com}-certs.tar_" \
--server-cert "_/root/My_Certificates/{smart-proxy-context}_cert.pem_" \
--server-key "_/root/My_Certificates/{smart-proxy-context}_cert_key.pem_" \
--server-ca-cert "_/root/My_Certificates/ca_cert_bundle.pem_" \
--certs-update-server
----

> . On {ProjectServer}, copy the certificate archive file to your {SmartProxyServer}:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On your {ProjectServer}, copy the certificate archive file to your {SmartProxyServer}:
```

[id="Renewing_a_Custom_SSL_Certificate_{smart-proxy-context}_{context}"]
= Renewing a {customssltitle} certificate on {SmartProxyServer}

Use this procedure to update your {customssl} certificate for {SmartProxyServer}.
The `{foreman-installer}` command, which the `{certs-generate}` command returns, is unique to each {SmartProxyServer}.
You cannot use the same command on more than one {SmartProxyServer}.

.Prerequisite

> You must create a new Certificate Signing Request and send it to the Certificate Authority to sign the certificate. Refer to the {InstallingServerDocURL}Configuring_Server_with_a_Custom_SSL_Certificate_{context}[Configuring {ProjectServer} with a Custom SSL Certificate] guide before creating a new CSR because the Server certificate must have X.509 v3 `Key Usage` and `Extended Key Usage` extensions with required values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You must create a new Certificate Signing Request and send it to the Certificate Authority to sign the certificate.
Refer to the {InstallingServerDocURL}Configuring_Server_with_a_Custom_SSL_Certificate_{context}[Configuring {ProjectServer} with a Custom SSL Certificate] guide before creating a new CSR because the Server certificate must have X.509 v3 `Key Usage` and `Extended Key Usage` extensions with required values.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Use this procedure to renew a {customssl} certificate signed by a Certificate Authority for your {SmartProxyServer}.
The `{foreman-installer}` command, which the `{certs-generate}` command returns, is unique to each {SmartProxyServer}.
You cannot use the same command on more than one {SmartProxyServer}.

.Prerequisite
You must create a new Certificate Signing Request and send it to the Certificate Authority to sign the certificate.
In return, you will receive the {SmartProxyServer} certificate and CA bundle.
You must keep the {SmartProxyServer} SSL certificates on the {ProjectServer} by creating a directory and verifying them by the `katello-certs-check` command.

.Procedure
. On {ProjectServer}, validate the {customssl} certificate input files:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----

> # katello-certs-check -t {smart-proxy-context}\

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# katello-certs-check -t {smart-proxy-context} \
```

-b /root/_{smart-proxy-context}_cert/ca_cert_bundle.pem_ \
-c /root/_{smart-proxy-context}_cert/{smart-proxy-context}_cert.pem_ \

> -k /root/_{smart-proxy-context}_cert/{smart-proxy-context}_cert_key.pem_ \

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-k /root/_{smart-proxy-context}_cert/{smart-proxy-context}_cert_key.pem_
```

----

. Use the following `{certs-generate}` commands to generate the certificate archive file for your {SmartProxyServer}:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----

> {certs-generate} --foreman-proxy-fqdn "{smartproxy-example-com}" \

Author: Okk. So, there is nothing to modify from the document side (as you have raised the development ticket upstream).

> {certs-generate} --foreman-proxy-fqdn "{smartproxy-example-com}" \

Reviewer 3: Correct

--certs-tar  "_/root/My_Certificates/{smartproxy-example-com}-certs.tar_" \
--server-cert "_/root/My_Certificates/{smart-proxy-context}_cert.pem_" \
--server-key "_/root/My_Certificates/{smart-proxy-context}_cert_key.pem_" \
--server-ca-cert "_/root/My_Certificates/ca_cert_bundle.pem_" \
--certs-update-server
----
. On {ProjectServer}, copy the certificate archive file to your {SmartProxyServer}:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----

> # scp /root/_{smart-proxy-context}_cert/{smartproxy-example-com}-certs.tar_

Reviewer 3: This should match with the argument to `--certs-tar` in the above command. There you use `/root/My_Certificates/{smartproxy-example-com}-certs.tar`. You also lack an argument to `scp`, which is the destination.

Typically it's something like `scp source destination`, where destination is `user@{smartproxy-example-com}:_/root/{smartproxy-example-com}-certs.tar_`. Note that the path on the destination should match `-foreman-proxy-content-certs-tar` in the next command.

Author: I guess the destination should be `user@{smartproxy-example-com}:/root/My_Certificates`

> # scp _/root/My_Certificates/{smartproxy-example-com}-certs.tar_ _user@{smartproxy-example-com}:/root/My_Certificates_

Author: Agree to this :+1:

If the validity of CA-signed SSL certificates installed on {SmartProxy} from Certificate Authority A expires, and you installed an SSL certificate from Certificate Authority B, then you must re-deploy the `katello-ca-consumer-latest.noarch.rpm` package on every client registered to external {SmartProxyServers}.
This is because you require a new CA certificate for a client to authenticate or communicate with {SmartProxyServers}.
====

Use this procedure to renew a {customssl} certificate signed by a Certificate Authority for your {SmartProxyServer}.
The `{foreman-installer}` command, which the `{certs-generate}` command returns, is unique to each {SmartProxyServer}.
You cannot use the same command on more than one {SmartProxyServer}.

.Prerequisite
* You must create a new Certificate Signing Request and send it to the Certificate Authority to sign the certificate.
In return, you will receive the {SmartProxyServer} certificate and CA bundle.

> You must keep the {SmartProxyServer} SSL certificates on the {ProjectServer} by creating a folder and verifying them through the `katello-certs-check` command.

Reviewer 3: UNIX has directories, Windows has folders.
```suggestion
You must keep the {SmartProxyServer} SSL certificates on the {ProjectServer} by creating a directory and verifying them through the `katello-certs-check` command.
```

.Procedure
. On {ProjectServer}, validate the {customssl} certificate input files:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----

> # katello-certs-check \

Reviewer 3: Given you're generating for a Smart Proxy, you should set the target to create the correct instructions.
```suggestion
# katello-certs-check -t {smart-proxy-context}\
```

-b /root/_{smart-proxy-context}_cert/ca_cert_bundle.pem_ \

> -c /root/_{smart-proxy-context}_cert/new_{smart-proxy-context}_cert.pem_ \

Reviewer 3: Why does this have `new_`? Later you also use `new-` as a prefix. I'd leave those out.

Author: Removed `new` :+1:

-k /root/_{smart-proxy-context}_cert/{smart-proxy-context}_cert_key.pem_ \
----
+

> If the CN has a wildcard value, you must add the `-t {smart-proxy-context}` option to the `katello-certs-check` command.

Reviewer 3: I'm wondering where this came from. The only difference I see is that `-t` creates different instructions at the end.

Author: Omitted as we added the argument in `katello-certs-check` :+1:

--certs-tar  "_/root/My_Certificates/{smartproxy-example-com}-certs.tar_" \
--server-cert "_/root/My_Certificates/new-{smart-proxy-context}_cert.pem_" \
--server-key "_/root/My_Certificates/{smart-proxy-context}_cert_key.pem_" \
--server-ca-cert "_/root/My_Certificates/ca_cert_bundle.pem_" \
--certs-update-server
----
. On {ProjectServer}, copy the certificate archive file to your {SmartProxyServer}:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# scp /root/_{smart-proxy-context}_cert/{smartproxy-example-com}-certs.tar_
----
. Retain a copy of the `{foreman-installer}` command that the `{certs-generate}` command returns for deploying the certificate to your {SmartProxyServer}.
. Deploy the certificate on your {SmartProxyServer} using the `{foreman-installer}` command returned by the `{certs-generate}` command:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {installer-scenario-smartproxy} \
--foreman-proxy-content-parent-fqdn "{foreman-example-com}" \
--foreman-proxy-register-in-foreman "true" \
--foreman-proxy-foreman-base-url \ "https://{foreman-example-com}"
--foreman-proxy-content-certs-tar "_/root/{smartproxy-example-com}-certs.tar_" \
--certs-update-server
----
+

> Run the installer again with the above option set to _true_ when the network and firewalls are correctly configured.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure this comment makes sense. I think it may have previously been for a case where `foreman-proxy-register-in-foreman` was set to false, but it's already true now.

Author: Omitted :+1:

[IMPORTANT]
====

> Do not delete the certificate archive file after you deploy the certificate.

Author: Reworded :+1:

[id="Renewing_a_Custom_SSL_Certificate_{smart-proxy-context}_{context}"]
= Renewing a {customssltitle} certificate on {SmartProxyServer}

[NOTE]
====
If your {SmartProxyServer} is already configured with CA-signed SSL certificates and has been renewed by the same Certificate Authority, there is no need to replace the consumer package `katello-ca-consumer-latest.noarch.rpm` on clients registered to {SmartProxyServer}.

If the validity of CA-signed SSL certificates installed on {SmartProxy} from Certificate Authority A expires, and you installed an SSL certificate from Certificate Authority B, then you must re-deploy the `katello-ca-consumer-latest.noarch.rpm` package on every client registered to external {SmartProxyServers}.

> This is because you require a new CA certificate for a client to authenticate or communicate with external {SmartProxies}.proc_renewing-a-custom-ssl-certificate-proxy.adoc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is because you require a new CA certificate for a client to authenticate or communicate with {SmartProxyServers}.
```

====

Use this procedure to renew a {customssl} certificate signed by a Certificate Authority for your {SmartProxyServer}.
The `{foreman-installer}` command, which the `{certs-generate}` command returns, is unique to each {SmartProxyServer}.
You cannot use the same command on more than one {SmartProxyServer}.

.Prerequisite
* You must create a new Certificate Signing Request and send it to the Certificate Authority to sign the certificate.
In return, you will receive the {SmartProxyServer} certificate and CA bundle.
You must keep the {SmartProxyServer} SSL certificates on the {ProjectServer} by creating a folder and verifying them through the `katello-certs-check` command.

.Procedure
. On {ProjectServer}, validate the {customssl} certificate input files:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# katello-certs-check \

> -c _/root/{smart-proxy-context}_cert/New_{smart-proxy-context}_cert.pem_ \

Reviewer: same as above.

Author: Applied :+1:

-k _/root/{smart-proxy-context}_cert/{smart-proxy-context}_cert_key.pem_ \
-b _/root/{smart-proxy-context}_cert/ca_cert_bundle.pem_
----
+
If the CN has a wildcard value, you must add the `-t {smart-proxy-context}` option to the `katello-certs-check` command.
. Use the following `{certs-generate}` commands to generate the certificate archive file for your {SmartProxyServer}:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
{certs-generate} --foreman-proxy-fqdn "{smartproxy-example-com}" \

> --certs-tar  "_/root/_My_Certificates_/{smartproxy-example-com}-certs.tar_" \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--certs-tar  "_/root/My_Certificates/{smartproxy-example-com}-certs.tar_" \
```

IMHO one to many `_`. I think it's fine to have to while path in italic font.

Same applies to all other lines in this block. Please also sort in alphabetical order.

Author: Applied at other places too :+1:

--server-cert "_/root/My_Certificates/new-{smart-proxy-context}_cert.pem_" \
--server-key "_/root/My_Certificates/{smart-proxy-context}_cert_key.pem_" \
--server-ca-cert "_/root/My_Certificates/ca_cert_bundle.pem_" \
--certs-update-server
----
. On {ProjectServer}, copy the certificate archive file to your {SmartProxyServer}:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# scp /root/_{smart-proxy-context}_cert/{smartproxy-example-com}-certs.tar_
----
. Retain a copy of the `{foreman-installer}` command that the `{certs-generate}` command returns for deploying the certificate to your {SmartProxyServer}.
. Deploy the certificate on your {SmartProxyServer} using the `{foreman-installer}` command returned by the `{certs-generate}` command:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {installer-scenario-smartproxy} \
--foreman-proxy-content-parent-fqdn "{foreman-example-com}" \
--foreman-proxy-register-in-foreman "true" \
--foreman-proxy-foreman-base-url \ "https://{foreman-example-com}"
--foreman-proxy-trusted-hosts \ "{foreman-example-com}" \

> --foreman-proxy-trusted-hosts "{smartproxy-example-com}" \

Reviewer 3: Assuming no hostname was changed, it's not really needed to specify this.

--foreman-proxy-oauth-consumer-key "_My_OAuth_Consumer_Key_" \

> --foreman-proxy-oauth-consumer-secret "_My_OAuth_Consumer_Secret_" \

Reviewer 3: Assuming the OAuth credentials weren't changed, there's no need to specify this.

--foreman-proxy-content-certs-tar "_/root/{smartproxy-example-com}-certs.tar_" \

> --puppet-server-foreman-url "https://{foreman-example-com}" \

Reviewer 3: Also, if the Foreman server URL wasn't changed this shouldn't be specified.

It should also be noted that this should only be specified if the user enabled Puppet. If they didn't (default for Katello), this will cause problems.

--certs-update-server
----
+

> When network connections or ports to {Project} are not yet open, you can set the `--foreman-proxy-register-in-foreman` option to _false_ to prevent {SmartProxy} from attempting to connect to {Project} and reporting errors.

Reviewer 3: I don't think this is a good idea. If you can't register the Foreman Proxy to Foreman then it can be a serious problem. For example, Puppet (which is documented in the example above) can't talk back to Foreman. The templates plugin won't work either. `--foreman-proxy-register-in-foreman false` should not be documented in regular workflows.

Instead, the user should fix their firewalls and then retry.

Note that if you don't register, you don't need to specify the OAuth credentials either. OAuth is **only** used for that. More of a technical details, since I don't think we should document the flow to begin with.

Run the installer again with the above option set to _true_ when the network and firewalls are correctly configured.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Do not delete the certificate archive file after you deploy the certificate.

> It is required, for example, when upgrading {SmartProxyServer}.

Reviewer: The wording is slightly different than above. I like this one better.

Feel free to either copy&paste; or create a small snippet with the IMPORTANT admonition like this one: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/master/guides/common/modules/snip_do-not-attach-subscriptions-to-key.adoc

Author: I didn't catch about changes in wording. 🙄
I can definitely make a snippet for this, though.

Author: Applied the style from `proxy` to `project` section. :+1:
